Title: Blog Config Revisited
Category: blog
Tags: pelican, blogging
Summary: Some rough edges begin to show
Date: 2015-12-23

A quick heads up for all the folks out there. I had to make a couple minor fixes that may be of interest to anyone leveraging Pelican the way I am.

## Ignore Files

My [last entry]({filename}/theme-layout-thoughts.markdown) introduced the first static files into the blog; namely the thumbnail and full-size image of my layout sketch. At one point I had an OS X Finder window open on these folders so it very helpfully created **.DS_Store** files to keep track of various Finder-y things. When publishing, Pelican will copy any files in the `STATIC_PATHS` list verbatim. Including, it turns out, hidden files. I'd inadvertently published random desktop garbage into my site.

Normally a **.gitignore** file will catch this but since `master` is managed by Pelican it doesn't include anything not generated by the publish action.

This can be easily remedied by adding `'.DS_Store'` to the `IGNORE_FILES` list in **pelicanconf.py** and they'll get zapped the next time you publish. In my particular case I removed the default ignore pattern as well since I don't use emacs. As usual, consult the [Pelican docs](http://docs.getpelican.com/en/3.6.3/settings.html) for details.

## Filesystem Dates

In my [publish post]({filename}/publish-pelican-blog.markdown) I pointed out that setting `DEFAULT_DATE = 'fs'` was a handy way to auto-generate publish dates based on the filesystem. This works great if the file's modified date never changes, which it shouldn't after you've published it. Right? *Right?* Except when you want to switch branches in git. Oops. Want to pop open `master` for some reason (like, I dunno, investigating why dot files are getting published) and then jump back into `source`? Your whole blog just did the time warp!

I'm keeping the 'fs' setting since it's handy when drafting a post, but just like setting `Status` manually I'll have to write out the `Date` field on every post when I'm ready to publish. Since I already have to remove the "draft" status when publishing it's not a huge deal to replace it with the date. 
